awesome hey guys my name is J I'm one of
the experts IELTS teachers here at e2
language we're here for another IELTS
academic writing task one class in this
one we're going to look at two tables
which is something that you might see on
test day if you haven't seen them yet
you can also see the one table and you
can see the three tables as well this is
- it's all possible it's all possible
the plan for this live class is to do
four things first of all we're going to
look at a two table task one and I want
you to analyze it and I want you to plan
your description I'm going to give you
90 seconds to do that because that's
about as much time as you'll have in the
actual exam to analyse and plan it's an
extremely important first step second
you're going to write your summary
sentence which is probably the most
important sentence of your entire
description I'm going to give you two
minutes to do that then you're going to
write the description paragraph and your
comparison paragraphs and I'm gonna give
you a full 15 minutes to do that so in
total that'll be seventeen eighteen and
a half minutes and at the end I'm going
to show you a way to score yourself so
you know how to write to make the
examiners happy okay two tables right so
on test day you open up your test
booklet and this is what you see before
you a run out of the room B start crying
or C jump out of the window you should
actually just spend a little bit of time
looking at this and understanding it
when you first look at these two tables
you think this is going to be impossible
to understand but it's not it's not in
fact it's not so let's think about
structure and analysis okay how would
you structure your description well
really and this is the e to language
method I've been teaching you this
there's three main things that you need
to do when in any of these tasks one's
okay you need to write a summary
sentence you need to identify the main
trends or the key features and then you
need to make comparisons
so these could be this could be three
paragraphs for example your summary
sentence a paragraph for key features
and a paragraph for comparisons but
number three usually will be broken down
into sub paragraphs as well or mmm or
additional paragraphs I'll show you in a
second so I'm gonna give you 90 seconds
you can see the blue clock down in the
corner I just want you to look and
understand understand these two tables
and I want you to Sketch up a bit of a
structure in your mind for how your your
paragraphs will work on test day you
have a minute and a half to look at this
starting now
you
right hopefully while looking at these
two tables you saw a way in which you
might structure your description there
are certain trends in a table I'll go
through them in a second and I'll show
you how I structured it but this is such
a critical step in achieving a high
score it's your ability to first of all
recognize what you're looking at to
analyze it and to see okay
okay I see what's going on here I see a
bit of a pattern here and I see a
pattern here that could be a good first
paragraph that could be a good second
paragraph bicycle hires that's a
category that's not in the forecasted
sales maybe I'll have to write a
separate paragraph for bicycle hires all
of these decisions are really critical
critical to make and they're difficult
to make because you're under such
enormous pressure on test day but the
decisions that you have to make okay so
let's go through this is how I thought
that I would structure mine so I kept
the summary key features and the
comparison idea so in my key features
I'm gonna talk about the totals because
there was a total category there the
good performers and the poor performers
and I'll briefly mention that new
category of bicycle hires okay so I can
include a little bit of data here that's
fine but that's not the point I'm just
talking about the key features of those
tables and basically there were two key
features there were those categories of
sales which performed well and those
categories of sales which underperformed
okay that's basically there's your two
paragraphs it can be that simple and in
the comparison section well I'm going to
write a paragraph about the below the
the the sales that did not meet
expectations those that were below
forecast and I'll write a paragraph
about those sales which were above
forecast I believe there were there was
definitely one and there was one that
had a couple and then maybe the last
sentence or a last two sentences I'll
talk about that new category so maybe
your
structure looked like mine of course
there are many different ways to
structure this so your if yours look
different that's fine so on test day
this is what my writing task one will
look like it's a hundred and seventy
five words in fact it has kind of if you
want to count that first sentence it has
the summary sentence then it has one two
three four paragraphs now I have to be
flexible and test day I could write
three I could just write two probably
not but I want to be flexible and I want
to write or I want to structure this
according to what I'm looking at not
according to some set structure that I
bring with me to on test day I want to
look at these tables and go okay this is
gonna require four paragraphs or maybe
I'll look at it go hmm this is gonna
require three paragraphs whatever it is
let me take you through mine so the
summary sentence how did I write this
well I looked at this sentence here
which says the tables below show the
forecasted and actual sales of a bicycle
shop over four months okay so I took
that sentence I rewrote it in my words
to mean the exact same thing the two
tables depict a bicycle shops predicted
and actual sales over the first four
months of a year
it says the exact same thing it's just
written in different words not entirely
different words the word actual sales I
couldn't change for example and bicycle
shop I couldn't change that perhaps I
could have written bicycles store I've
changed it enough then I wrote this
paragraph here about the key features of
those two tables which basically is I
started with a sentence about the totals
how the forecasted sales didn't meet the
expectations of the actual sales I
talked about how new bicycles and
clothing didn't perform well at all I
talked about how spare parts and repairs
did perform well and I mentioned very
briefly that bicycle hires was added as
well so this paragraph says despite a
strong month in February all forecasted
sales for each month did not meet X
patience several categories did well
including repairs and spare parts sales
however bicycle sales and clothing sales
performed poorly
a new category was added in the third
month namely bicycle hires you there's
no data in here there's a bit of a
comparison I haven't included any of the
sales figures the dollar amounts nothing
like that it's just a description of the
key features of those two tables and it
kind of serves as a bit of an
introduction and I'll show you why it
serves as an introduction well okay this
is just a sentence about the totals
that's fine several categories did well
well this becomes this paragraph here
however bicycle sales and clothing sales
perform poorly well that becomes this
paragraph here a new category was added
in the third month namely bicycle hires
well that becomes that final paragraph
there so this description kind of you
can kind of think of it like an
introduction for an essay for example
it's going to tell the reader what you
will tell them
so what about this paragraph how did I
do that well when I looked at these two
tables I saw that new bicycles and
clothing did not meet the expectation of
actual sales let me show you what I mean
let's look at new bicycles so the
forecast in January was $15,000 it made
13 3 February 17,000 and made o I've
actually made a little mistake it was
actually above in that month there
that's I didn't see that actually uh-oh
would I lose points probably how many
points would I lose I don't know I can
honestly say despite I made this but I
didn't see that I actually put that in
higher sales in February is it a big
issue I possibly could have improved
I'll show you what my paragraph says in
a second maybe I could have said a
particular phrase apart from February
all sales did not meet expectations for
new bicycles I could have done that with
my language I didn't I'll show you in a
second so March it was expected to be 18
it made 15 in April expected 20 it made
similarly clothing forecasts at four and
a half thousand made two three forecasts
in February 5-1 made two one etc etc
they all performed lower than that
except for February here so I made a
paragraph about that those sales below
forecast and I wrote this while bicycle
sales were projected to increase each
month they in fact decreased each month
with the except oh I did write it sorry
with the exception of February which saw
sales at $440 above expectations
similarly clothing which was expected to
rise to 6 thousand by April only reached
3220 well below its forecast sorry I did
include that exception there in February
so whew that's lucky I'm glad I did that
cool this paragraph ok those sales which
were above the forecast estimates
so spare parts
and repairs so I've combined these two
categories into one paragraph let's
quickly go through this so in January it
was expected to make three seven it made
four five in February it was expected to
make four - it made four one six zero so
below slightly below four five here for
seven five thousand three - oh okay fine
so there were two category months above
expectations repairs expected to make
two five made to five nine or $40.00
above fine it's still above you don't
need to be particular to five five oh
three four - OH - five five oh three
five five oh three four five oh and
three seven so these were all above
expectation for this category of repairs
here so how did I word this in my
paragraph because repairs is fine I can
just say it increased each month spare
parts did but only for January and March
was it was above expectation so I wrote
this so in contrast to those below
forecasts there's my linking word
connecting my paragraphs so in contrast
spare part sales did reasonably well
outperforming its forecasts in January
and March attaining an $800 and 260
dollar increase repairs also exceeded
expectations with sales increasing month
on month from 2592 3780 now one thing
you'll notice that I'm not doing which
is a bit of a change to the method
recently after I took this test for the
third time is an after I got some
feedback from an IELTS examiner okay so
I spoke to an IELTS examiner he said
everything's good but you're probably
over reporting what does that mean that
means that you do not need to include
all of the data okay you just need to
choose those data which are most
interesting or which are most accept
shanell or which show a pattern you do
not need to say in April it was this in
March it was this in January it was this
and in February as this you can just say
it increased by four hundred dollars
over this four months or you can just
say January was an exception at eight
hundred and eighty six dollars whatever
okay so here's a little key don't over
report data just select the data the
numbers the dollars the temperatures
whatever you're looking at and just
report on the interesting stuff okay
cool finally new category okay so I
looked at this and I saw this little bit
here and what the IELTS will often do is
they'll often put in a little curve ball
for you such as bicycle hires because
there's no bicycle hires here it doesn't
exist in the forecasted sales but then
in March and April they introduced this
new category which made them a bit of
money so you should include exceptional
things like this even if it's just one
or two sentences as a separate paragraph
I wrote in March an April a new type of
revenue stream was created that being
bicycle hires this brought in income of
eight hundred and fifty and eleven
hundred dollars in the final two months
wham bam thank you ma'am this is my
description there of the two tables now
before you write yours I've got
something to ask you
first of all I want you to like this
video comment if you're enjoying it
subscribe to the channel and you can
share it with your friends if you like
in addition in addition if you're a free
user and you're watching all of these
YouTube videos and you're thinking wow
this is fabulous you can feel free to
donate some money to e to language I
don't care if it's one dollar or two
dollars or ten dollars or whatever it is
you want to donate if you go to this
website here you can do me a favor you
can do the company a favor a little
contribution will go a long way it was
too recent
thing I love seeing little dollars
appear on my phone I think fantastic
somebody's appreciated us enough to give
us a couple of dollars and that's cool
because it means we can keep going and
keep building and keep doing this thing
anyway it's up to you right let's move
on to time to practice you're gonna have
17 minutes because we've already spent
at 90 seconds analyzing and planning our
time to practice will be divided into
two parts we're gonna write a summary
I'm gonna give you two minutes to
transform that description into your own
words then you're going to have 15
minutes to talk about the key features
and write your comparison paragraphs
okay you're two minutes to transform
that first sentence that description
into your own words starts now
you
what the hell is that okay that was some
weird alarm that's fine let me have a
look at some of these here the tables
illustrate them in the actual value of
different products in comparison to its
planning I'm not quite you don't have to
transform it that much okay you got to
find it you're going to find the right
way to do it the tables illustrate the
information about the possible predicted
would be better predicted and actual
sales of the bicycle shop in four months
from January to April good well done I
think that word possible sales is not
quite precise enough so forecast you
want to find a synonym for forecast so a
forecasted sales predicted sales
estimated sales expected sales something
like that would be a nice way to do that
using synonyms the two tables show
predicted and actual sales of bicycles
of bicycle shop of a bison of a bicycle
shop which happened over four months
from January to April ok fine change
that a little bit one more
the table to the two tables illustrate
the predicted and the actual sales of
the bicycle shops over the four months
of the year good nice well done good
good good good good
make sure you get that sentence right
it's absolutely critical okay
now we move on to I want you to write a
description paragraph and then I want
you to write your comparison paragraph
so you're going to have 15 minutes this
thing believe it or not is a timer
it works isn't working whoops yes it was
working okay here we go
you
got about one minute left
Oh keep Doki I think I think that's the
end of the 15 minutes let me just have a
look at some of the some of what you
have written here okay here we go
new bicycles and clothing didn't reach
their targets I'm reading so fears I'm
making a few small changes as I read it
except for February the actual sales
were lower than the forecasted in
bicycle sales clothing production wasn't
high no no no it wasn't a clothing
Productions clothing sales clothing
sales weren't high in April the actual
sales were harmed good nice
well Harve that's that's that's that's
good language quick language so you
didn't use a particular you know dollar
sign you just said they hard that's good
that's good from their forecasts on the
other hand spare parts and repairs were
higher spare parts were successful in
sales in January and March when in
February and April the actual sales were
lower a new section bicycle hires
started in March and in April and it
earned more money than previously fine
in conclusion no conclusions
there's no conclusions in writing task
one conclusions are four essays when you
come to a conclusion nothing to conclude
here we're just describing so really it
has no sort of end actually mine just
ended with a piddly little sentence
about the new categories so you're sure
to good though Sofia that's looking nice
let's have a look at I'll read one more
I'll read just meet despite the fact
that February is great a great month but
the sales of many products declined in
actual but every cloud has a silver
lining
no every cloud doesn't have a silver
lining this this academic writing task 1
is a is it is a prosaic description of
data no idioms should be put into this
so no silver linings in clouds this is
just describing data and doing it
accurately
in your essay should you write idioms in
your essay well personally I don't think
you should you can use academic phrases
in your essay possibly an idiom if it
works for example what did I write
children left to their own devices will
not use a computer whatever I write
something like that fine that's a good
few products consistently rose like
repairs okay
although the planning of new bicycles
was expected
I'm sorry expected to grow each month
the sales value of new bicycle sales
declined month after month going fine
that's fine that's fine that's fine
okay importantly you need to count your
words because I've just seen that just
meets written 121 words that's not
enough you need to write at least a
hundred and fifty if you write a hundred
and less than 150 which by the way 22
percent of candidates do you will
immediately lose I don't know how much
they take off you but it's probably
gonna be like one whole band score so if
you were going to get an 8 you would get
a 7 a 7 would get a 6 for example if you
do not meet the word count count your
words do some mathematics on the page
you have to count your words you have to
make sure that you write over 150 second
thing is in your essay they give you one
sheet of paper for your answer sheet
it's not enough for most people it's not
enough if your handwriting is big like
mine I can only fit five words on a line
I need two pieces of paper and I fill
most of them back in front to get past
250 words awesome all right how are you
gonna score yourself how do you know if
you're doing it well or not
well the IELTS give out these things
called criteria which are what the
examiners used to grade your writing
woopsie the criteria looked like this
there are four categories that you are
graded on first one is task achievement
let's just focus on task achievement
first so to get a high IELTS writing
score for task achievement you wrote
directly about the image or the tables
you identified main features and you
compared relevant data if you did that
well you would get an 8 well I don't
know how they score you in actual fact I
think they throw them down the stairs
but anyway task achievement lower you
would get a 5 if you did not address the
task or your understanding of the task
was inadequate and in other words you
did not understand the tables the
response was unclear irrelevant
repetitive or inaccurate ok so maybe you
can mark yourself from 5 to 8
give yourself a score for task
achievement structure eight would be
that you effectively used the e to
formula to write a logical structure
your response was cohesive and your
ideas a lot linked logically there's a
few different verb tenses in there
that's not good Laura you did not use
the e to formula or a logical structure
there was a lack of clear progression of
ideas in other words everything was
jumbled up linking words were used
inaccurately or inappropriately so that
would be a five vocabulary you used a
wide range of sophisticated words
naturally accurately and appropriately
lo you used a limited range of
vocabulary you made noticeable errors in
spelling and/or word formation that
caused some difficulty for the reader
finally grammar your grammar was
entirely accurate he used a wide range
of structures with full flexibility and
accuracy rare minor errors occur only as
slips in other words you can make small
errors one or two small errors that's
okay low your grammar contained a number
of basic mistakes you made frequent
grammatical errors and punctuation which
caused some difficulty for the reader in
other words what you might need if you
did not grade yourself well you may need
to go and check out this website here
WWWE - language comm you can start as a
free user you can sign up for free and
you get some free stuff if you're really
struggling or if you need help or
whatever you can upgrade your account to
access tutorials to access feedback on
your writing by our IELTS experts to
access our live group classes which are
very very helpful and to access all of
our practice materials okay and methods
and overview lessons and everything we
have there so you might want to check
that out
that's all if you do want to donate to e
to language comm you can check the
description below click the PayPal me
link one or two dollars that would be
nice
apart from that I'll answer a few
questions for you now
all right questions questions questions
I'm just gonna move my computer a bit
closer okay let's have a look at some
questions
I got stay I wrote my exam last week
most people write exams only on only one
sheet correct
most people doing for the it's just this
I just fight I'm sorry I just find this
so unbelievably wrong that they don't
give you two pieces of paper to write
your essay cuz most I made this mistake
in my first two high notes
I wrote below the word count because I
got my I did my writing tasks one 150
words back and front foot right
I wrote my essay back in front and I
thought it I just thought rookie mistake
I thought it must be 250 words because
well they've only given me one piece of
paper and I filled the back in front
must be 250 words I've got big
handwriting but a lot of people do
anyway
I didn't write to the word count and so
I got a poor score
frustratingly anyway what I found out I
did some experiments and I looked at my
handwriting and I printed off an answer
sheet you should probably do this go and
print an answer sheet and write an essay
on it and just sort of see whether you
do need to pages and see where you end
up yeah anyway it's not how I just put
your hand up ask the examiner say excuse
me I need another sheet of paper and
they'll bring one over it's frustrating
but yes hi Jay I'm facing too many
problems while speaking please suggest
some tips to overcome the fillers
Barlowe check out the method PP if our e
to language method called PP if past
present and future it is an absolute
winner ok
[Music]
ah think somebody's invited me to
Morocco cool I would love to go to
Morocco that would be fantastic it's
none of my lists yet but maybe I'll put
it on there JD - dude how can I send my
writing tasks to for you to check well
you have to become a paid member and as
a part of your package you get feedback
assessments so you will actually write
out your essay type it up and through
the e2 language platform send it our
teachers will mark it send it back to
you within a representative score and
with comments about what you've done
good and what you've done bad which is
important joy says PPF really worked for
me
yes it does work it's really good Heena
hi J what would you what would you be
your suggestion in terms of leaving a
line for clear writing so with your s
with your task one and task 2 just leave
a line between your paragraphs that's
all just leave one line between your
paragraphs
J come to Goa also huh I've been to
India a couple of times I like it I
really like South India actually I like
the north to like Rishikesh
I like Mysore that's a nice place how
many tasks we can send as a paid member
it depends on the package because we
have like budget package bronze silver
gold and platinum so you'll have to
check out on the website and decide and
visit Delhi as well that'd be cool all
right let me check out YouTube live and
answer any questions there
okay I'm just looking at it here J do
the examiner's reduce our ban score if
our handwriting is unclear yes it
doesn't have to be beautiful but it has
to be legible readable understandable if
it's not then you will lose marks so
yeah think about your handwriting
Hannah Hernandez oh no that's someone
commenting about Hannah Hernandez who by
the way you did contribute to PayPal or
patreon thank you for that I appreciate
it very much so I have a question as
regards to the structure of writing task
1 first paraphrase the statement second
overall third body yes yes
so really three parts but three summary
sentence is always the same then your
description paragraph of key features or
main trends key features and all main
trends this one didn't really have
trends because it was just comparing two
things then you write your comparison
paragraphs now you might write one you
might write - you might write three even
possibly four depends on what you're
looking at okay so thinking about how to
structure it's important Russia had 26
why you did not read my question I just
read your question Jay how much is it in
pounds to sign up for the paid package
I'm not sure we're selling US dollars so
you can do a google whatever it is
typing X pounds in US dollars or
whatever
tomorrow's my speaking tips please
assist me with it check out the PPF
method it's really good time management
from reading
sorry let me go back to another one Jay
what is the trick to compare relatively
similar chance okay let's say you're
looking at two charts and they're
relatively similar well they won't be
ions won't give you two charts that are
almost the same because you have to make
comparisons between the two some things
will be similar not exactly the same
some things might be exactly the same
some things will be vastly different so
it's your ability to choose what's
similar what's the same and what's
vastly different and to write paragraphs
about that okay okay back to reading
time management it's understanding the
question types understanding the
strategies when you understand the
question types for example match
sentence endings is very confusing to
look at once you know what you're
looking at then you need a strategy for
how to do it that's what we teach you on
the website
okay and just some other questions about
improving grammar and vocabulary well
we're working on building some really
cool stuff at eetu at the moment so
anyway guys I'll call it a night thank
you very much for coming along I
appreciate it remember
PayPal me if you want to donate to eat
too and spread the love share the love
yes that would be nice
all right any questions you can also
just go to help dot e to language comm
she's got an e to language click on the
help button submit an inquiry that's
fine we'll answer it for you
thanks very much hope that was helpful I
hope you